README.md, before:

# mcomp - The Minisculus Compiler

In its current state, the compiler only runs lexical analyzer.

## Building

The following are descriptions of different procedures for building the compiler,
all of which produce a binary called `mcomp`. Note that the Alex lexer generator
is a *required* build dependency.

### Using cabal

This is the recommended way of building `mcomp`.

```
cabal configure
cabal build
```

This will produce a directory called `dist/` that contains all the build outputs,
including the `mcomp` executable (`dist/build/mcomp/mcomp`).

### Using make

An alternative way of building `mcomp` is to use the provided Makefile. By default,
it will put all the build output files in a directory called `make_build`. This
can be changed by setting the `OUTPUT_DIR` variable to the desired path.

```
make
```

## Running

The format for invoking the compiler is `mcomp [OPTIONS] [SOURCES]`. If no source
files are provided, `mcomp` will read source code from standard input up-to EOF
(`Ctrl+D` on most systems). For a complete list of available command line options,
run `mcomp --help`.

### Using cabal

If using `cabal` to build `mcomp`, the easiest way to run the program is to use
`cabal run --`. Everything after the `--` will be passed through as an option to
the `mcomp` executable.

```
$ cabal run -- --help                           # will print the help message
$ cabal run -- test/from_assignment/test3.m_    # will compile the file test/from_assignment/test3.m_
```

### Running manually

Assuming make was used to build `mcomp`, an equivalent way of running the above
commands is:

```
$ ./make_build/mcomp --help
$ ./make_build/mcomp test/from_assignment/test3.m_
```

## Tests

The `tests/` directory contains some sample tests for the compiler. Tests are
further divided into three sub-directories:

- `test/from_assignment`: contains test files provided as part of the assignment
- `test/good`: contains "well-formed" test files that should compile successfully
- `test/bad`: contains test files that should cause compilation failures

## License

The source code for mcomp and all accompanying scripts and documentation are
distributed under the terms of [the MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

Document some features and report file in errors
Now, when an error is encountered in a file, the path to the file will be
printed along with the error message.

README.md, after:

# mcomp - The Minisculus Compiler

In its current state, the compiler only does lexical analysis and prints the
identified tokens to standard output.

## Feature overview

Some note-worthy features include:

- can read source from multiple files or standard input
- recognizes nested multi-line comments
- reports missing `*/` foo each level of un-closed nested comment
- gives single-line comments higher precedence than multi-line comments
- reports line and column number of errors
- reports file containing the reported error (if not reading from standard input)

## Building

The following are descriptions of different procedures for building the compiler,
all of which produce a binary called `mcomp`. Note that the Alex lexer generator
is a *required* build dependency.

### Using cabal

This is the recommended way of building `mcomp`.

```
cabal configure
cabal build
```

This will produce a directory called `dist/` that contains all the build outputs,
including the `mcomp` executable (`dist/build/mcomp/mcomp`).

### Using make

An alternative way of building `mcomp` is to use the provided Makefile. By default,
it will put all the build output files in a directory called `make_build`. This
can be changed by setting the `OUTPUT_DIR` variable to the desired path.

```
make
```

## Running

The format for invoking the compiler is `mcomp [OPTIONS] [SOURCES]`. If no source
files are provided, `mcomp` will read source code from standard input up-to EOF
(`Ctrl+D` on most systems). For a complete list of available command line options,
run `mcomp --help`.

### Using cabal

If using `cabal` to build `mcomp`, the easiest way to run the program is to use
`cabal run --`. Everything after the `--` will be passed through as an option to
the `mcomp` executable.

```
$ cabal run -- --help                           # will print the help message
$ cabal run -- test/from_assignment/test3.m_    # will compile the file test/from_assignment/test3.m_
```

### Running manually

Assuming make was used to build `mcomp`, an equivalent way of running the above
commands is:

```
$ ./make_build/mcomp --help
$ ./make_build/mcomp test/from_assignment/test3.m_
```

## Tests

The `tests/` directory contains some sample tests for the compiler. Tests are
further divided into three sub-directories:

- `test/from_assignment`: contains test files provided as part of the assignment
- `test/good`: contains "well-formed" test files that should compile successfully
- `test/bad`: contains test files that should cause compilation failures

## License

The source code for mcomp and all accompanying scripts and documentation are
distributed under the terms of [the MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
